Test for frontend engineering candidates

Background
At Lendsqr, many of our lenders use web apps to reach over half a million customers. At this scale, we use React with TypeScript and SCSS as its frontend software development stack which allows us to rapidly ideate and release features rapidly and reliably.


To prepare for you as a possible frontend engineer at Lendsqr, we would require that you create an application using React with SCSS. This test will allow us to assess your strengths and weaknesses.


This assessment is not for entry-level engineers but for intermediate and above. At a minimum, you must have solid proficiency in TypeScript, React, CSS, and SCSS. Please do not attempt this assessment if you are not confident in your skills to deliver, as it would be a waste of your time.

Assessment
Given the design here: https://www.figma.com/file/ZKILoCoIoy1IESdBpq3GNC/Frontend

Testing?node-id=5530%3A0, which has sample pages to be built.


Build the 3 pages: Login, Dashboard, User page, User details page
The user pages should pull data from a mock api with 500 records
Use local storage or IndexedDB to store and retrieve user details on the user details page.
The page must be mobile responsive
Some details are intentionally left out of this instruction set. We feel the candidate should be able to spot and address them

This assessment is to test your competence and none of the code would be used within Lendsqr. In fact, this assessment is a snippet of the Lendsqr Admin console for our lenders. To see it in action, you could check our login page and sign up to see what the dashboard looks like.

Tech stack
React with an option to use any framework you are comfortable with
TypeScript is compulsory as the language of choice
SCSS must be used for style processing
Mock API:
Using the information provided on the Figma design, mock your APIs using common tools such as mocky.io or json-generator.com.

What would be assessed?

Visual fidelity - your assessment must be picture and pixel-perfect - it must be a 100% representation of the Figma design. As a frontend engineer, the quality of your render is sacrosanct
Code quality - well structured and well written
Application of best practice in design and architecture
Unit testing - you must apply positive and negative scenario testing
Quality of GitHub - your README docs, commit history, and messages must be clear enough for a random engineer to understand what has been done and why
Variable and function naming, conventions, and consistency
Semantic use of paths and resource naming
Design responsiveness to media types

The assessment will be conducted in the following steps. If you do not pass any of these steps, the assessment will be marked as failed.

Submission - Was the assessment submitted in line with the instructions?
Access - can the reviewer get access to the assessment?
Visual fidelity - is the web app a mirror image of the Figma design?
Github review - does the repo meet the standard required for the assessment?
Code review - does the web app code quality meet the standard for the assessment?

After completing the code assessment, you will be invited to participate in a technical interview with the Engineering Manager.

Submission mode:
Deploy the app on any free hosting cloud server using the following URL path https://<candidate-name>-lendsqr-fe-test.<cloud-platform-domain>. For example, https://ado-john-sule-lendsqr-fe-test.heroku.com. Free platforms include Heroku, Vercel, Netlify, etc.
Public GitHub/Bitbucket repo that contains your source code. The repo should be named lendsqr-fe-test
On a publicly available page (this can be Google Docs, Notion, etc.), document what you have done, clearly specifying the reasons for your approach and if there are decisions you made that influenced the final outcome. You may (optionally) also record a video of what you did if explaining visually and verbally is easier for you.

For example, you may want to compare what you have done against the design or even against the actual Lendsqr Admin console and argue for your own direction.

Consequently, the document you will submit will have
A review of your work and reasons for the options/tech used
Path to your app
A video review of what you have done. In this video, you are required to show or switch between the design you have been asked to do and what has been done, explaining if these match the requirements and if not. Your face must be visible in all the videos, even when sharing a screen. Kindly note that only a Loom video is accepted and must not be more than 3 minutes.
Submit your document, repo, and video URLs by filling out this Google Form -  Lendsqr Engineering assessment submission
Once submitted, send an email to careers@lendsqr.com notifying them of your submission
Getting support in the assessment
If you require additional information, don’t hesitate to contact us at careers@lendsqr.com.



At Lendsqr, we pay a significant premium for attention to details and meeting of acceptance criteria. Kindly follow the instructions for this test to the letter.


Common reasons for failing this stage include (but not limited to):

Not using the tech specified in the assessment
Poor visual fidelity between design and implementation
Poor codes that do not match the mastery required for this level
Not submitting your video review in the format specified

